lmkd/README.md, before:

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon
================================


Introduction
------------

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon (lmkd) is a process monitoring memory
state of a running Android system and reacting to high memory pressure
by killing the least essential process(es) to keep system performing
at acceptable levels.


Background
----------

Historically on Android systems memory monitoring and killing of
non-essential processes was handled by a kernel lowmemorykiller driver.
Since Linux Kernel 4.12 the lowmemorykiller driver has been removed and
instead userspace lmkd daemon performs these tasks.


Android Properties
------------------

lmkd can be configured on a particular system using the following Android
properties:

  ro.config.low_ram:         choose between low-memory vs high-performance
                             device. Default = false.

  ro.lmk.low:                min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at low vmpressure level. Default = 1001
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.medium:             min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at medium vmpressure level. Default = 800
                             (non-essential processes)

  ro.lmk.critical:           min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at critical vmpressure level. Default = 0
                             (all processes)

  ro.lmk.critical_upgrade:   enables upgrade to critical level. Default = false

  ro.lmk.upgrade_pressure:   max mem_pressure at which level will be upgraded
                             because system is swapping too much. Default = 100
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.downgrade_pressure: min mem_pressure at which vmpressure event will
                             be ignored because enough free memory is still
                             available. Default = 100 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.kill_heaviest_task: kill heaviest eligible task (best decision) vs.
                             any eligible task (fast decision). Default = false

  ro.lmk.kill_timeout_ms:    duration in ms after a kill when no additional
                             kill will be done, Default = 0 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.debug:              enable lmkd debug logs, Default = false

Commit message:

lmkd: Introduce support for legacy kill algorithm that uses minfree levels
Add ability to switch to the algorithm used by lowmemorykiller driver
for determining when to kill. It uses minfree levels to decide at which
levels of free memory and file cache to kill a process. oom_adj_score
is also determined by comparing current memory resources against minfree
levels.
ro.lmk.use_minfree_levels property is introduces for switching into this
mode. By default it is disabled.

Bug: 77299493
Bug: 75322373
Change-Id: I6b51972951026854a079fcda33d6786b7ed035e4
Merged-In: I6b51972951026854a079fcda33d6786b7ed035e4
Signed-off-by: Suren Baghdasaryan <surenb@google.com>
(cherry picked from commit 9fa4b5e1a63ffb82e55d4f1cbb8ca2d705ca292b)

lmkd/README.md, after:

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon
================================


Introduction
------------

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon (lmkd) is a process monitoring memory
state of a running Android system and reacting to high memory pressure
by killing the least essential process(es) to keep system performing
at acceptable levels.


Background
----------

Historically on Android systems memory monitoring and killing of
non-essential processes was handled by a kernel lowmemorykiller driver.
Since Linux Kernel 4.12 the lowmemorykiller driver has been removed and
instead userspace lmkd daemon performs these tasks.


Android Properties
------------------

lmkd can be configured on a particular system using the following Android
properties:

  ro.config.low_ram:         choose between low-memory vs high-performance
                             device. Default = false.

  ro.lmk.use_minfree_levels: use free memory and file cache thresholds for
                             making decisions when to kill. This mode works
                             the same way kernel lowmemorykiller driver used
                             to work. Default = false

  ro.lmk.low:                min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at low vmpressure level. Default = 1001
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.medium:             min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at medium vmpressure level. Default = 800
                             (non-essential processes)

  ro.lmk.critical:           min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at critical vmpressure level. Default = 0
                             (all processes)

  ro.lmk.critical_upgrade:   enables upgrade to critical level. Default = false

  ro.lmk.upgrade_pressure:   max mem_pressure at which level will be upgraded
                             because system is swapping too much. Default = 100
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.downgrade_pressure: min mem_pressure at which vmpressure event will
                             be ignored because enough free memory is still
                             available. Default = 100 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.kill_heaviest_task: kill heaviest eligible task (best decision) vs.
                             any eligible task (fast decision). Default = false

  ro.lmk.kill_timeout_ms:    duration in ms after a kill when no additional
                             kill will be done, Default = 0 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.debug:              enable lmkd debug logs, Default = false
